# Estimating the probability of long QT diagnosis from KCNH2 genetic variant properties
Here we propose a method to estimate the post-test probability of long QT diagnosis for variants in the cardiac potassium channel *KCNH2*. All code and data used and referenced in the manuscript (not yet accepted) are included here. An overview of the method and results are provided in "predict_penetrance_kcnh2_v5.html". The R markdown file used to generate this report is "predict_penetrance_kcnh2_v5.Rmd", which describes the methods and code used in the resulting manuscript. The raw data used are contained in the "heterozygote_data" folder. These data were processed using the "predict_penetrance_kcnh2_v3_process_data.Rmd" file. The "5va1.dists.txt" contains raw distances between centroid atoms in the three-dimensional structure of KV11.1 (protein product of *KCNH2*); these distance data are used to generate the LQTS probability density using the "func_dist_seq.R" script. Files which contain raw observation data, covariates, and LQTS probability priors and posteriors are saved as ".Rdata" files. These files contain post-test probabily prior estimates depending on if the subsequent analysis was done on all variants or only N=1 variants (variants found in single heterozygotes). "lit_all_data_checkpoint.RData" and "lit_no_n_is_one_checkpoint.RData" include all variants and all N > 1 variants, respectively. "lit_plus_cohort_checkpoint.RData" combines literature and cohort data for subsequent predictions which are found at https://oates.app.vumc.org/vancart/KCNH2/index.php

## Folders
The "covariates" folder contains all the predictive covariates/variant specific features used in the model.  The raw data used are contained in the "heterozygote_data" folder. The "Plots" folder are images for the "predict_penetrance_kcnh2_v5.html" report.
